- [Instructor] Servlets can be expensive when events
such as remote web service calls
or database writes are required.
When these operations occur frequently,
the server can experience a poor quality of operations
due to thread starvation.
Threads are valuable resources for web containers
so it's important to use them efficiently.
Asynchronous servlet support was introduced
in Java EE 7 to help us eliminate these problems.
Let's take a quick look at how to use asynchronous support
within servlets.
So the first thing we'll need to do is modify our
web servlet annotation in order to contain
the support for async, so to do that you'll see
the async supported element on the annotation.
Just set that to true and when we do that,
we'll have to specify the URL patterns element
on that web servlet annotation as well
and in order for this to work we'll have to do
the same thing on our filter.
So we'll set async supported to true there as well.
That concludes our work on the filter.
So let's return back to our servlet
and then within the post method we're going to add
a local variable for the async context
and we're able to grab the async context from the request
using the start async context method.
So this is going to allow us to control
some of the threading within our servlet.
Another thing I'm going to do just to keep things tidy
is create a new method that we will call return response
and this is just going to house all of that logic
that we created for creating that dynamic content
we're going to return.
Okay from there we'll continue our work within
the post method and what we'll need to do
is start a new thread.
So to do that we use the async response
and it has a start method that accepts a new runnable
and once we specify that new runnable
we'll have to add the run method
which will contain the logic the thread
is going to perform.
Now I mentioned we do this in the case where there's a long
kind of running pull maybe out to a web service
or we're writing to a database.
We don't have that yet so I'm just going to mock that
by telling our thread to sleep and we'll tell it to sleep
for roughly 5,000 milliseconds and that's going to require us
to surround that in try catch block
and then from there what we can do.
We're going to print out just some logging to the console
so we can see what thread we're in.
So we'll say we're printing the response
and then in another line what we can do is give
the name of the thread for that response.
So we'll say response returned by
and then from here we can grab the current thread
and get its name.
Okay so this is all happening within a separate thread
keep that in mind and then what we'll do
is move the dynamic content generation into that method
and we'll need to add another section
to our catch clause in order for that to work.
So we can catch the IO exception
and then the final thing that we'll need to do
is grab our async context within the new thread
and mark it complete and that's going to cause
the response to be returned back to the browser
and then I'm going to add some additional logging here
so we get some good insights into what's going on.
At the bottom of the do post method I'm going to print out
the name of a thread that handled the initial request
so just a quick recap, we get a request in
and that's handled in a thread one.
We then use the async context to create thread two
which is going to respond to the request.
Now after we create our second thread,
thread one keeps processing and we'll see it print out
the console output here with its name.
Okay so with all that in place, let's go ahead
and we'll run our application.
So I'll just right click, run as, and then run on server.
There we can see our application starting up,
and just so we can see this I'm going to open a browser.
Okay so there's our form and then let's kind of get
a side by side here with our console.
Let me clear that and we'll use our responses
shoes, awesome shoes and then 123 for the SKU.
Now watch the delay here that happens.
So there we see we started processing
the initial request and now five seconds later
we get the output back from the servlet.
So this is a look at async support for servlets
and we can leverage this when we need to conserve resources
on our servlet container.